docs: add Open Web Calendar integration tutorial (#138)
mergecal/icalendar-anonymizer: docs/tutorials/open-web-calendar.rst

Author: Steve, for the image alt text I’ve used AI since it’s needed for cases where images don’t load and for screen reader accessibility. I’m not fully confident the wording is appropriate though...

Author: Updated them to what would be right in [95cb4af](https://github.com/pycalendar/icalendar-anonymizer/pull/138/commits/95cb4af63b0219dffafa0e880ab1c748062c27b7)

Reviewer: In general, screenshots should be avoided in documentation unless they actually help explain something that is too difficult to explain with words alone. Within the documentarian community, snarky folks say, "If you need to use a screenshot to describe how to use your app, then your app sucks and you should reconsider its UX."

Snark aside:

- screenshots must be legible in the page
- if they're not legible, then there must be some way for the reader to view a full size image at a resolution that is legible
- screenshots are out of date as soon as you take them, and doubly so with calendar apps (haha!)
- screenshots are a maintenance burden
- visual consistency across operating systems could be an issue
- alternative text is an additional chore to get exactly right for people who use screen readers

After looking at all the screenshots and the narrative text, I think they detract from the flow and don't actually help the reader. For readers with visual impairments, it's also disruptive. I'd remove all of the screenshots.

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 icalendar-anonymizer contributors
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later

=====================================================
Publish an anonymized calendar with Open Web Calendar
=====================================================

> Share your calendar publicly, but hide the details you don't want people to see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you to share your calendar publicly, but hide the details you don't want people to see.
```

You'll use three tools:

- **Google Calendar** — where your events live
- **icalendar-anonymizer** — removes the fields you choose

> - **Open Web Calendar (OWC)** — renders the result as a web page

Reviewer: AI loves to create sloppy, noisy markup. There's no reason to use bold face here. Often there's a more proper [Sphinx role](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html), but if not, then plain text is fine.

I also like using [4 spaces for indentation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48311159/is-3-space-indentation-required-in-rest/48313531#48313531).

```suggestion
-   :program:`Google Calendar` stores your calendar data.
-   :program:`icalendar-anonymizer` removes fields you don't want to share.
-   :program:`Open Web Calendar (OWC)` renders the result as a web page.
```

Step 1: Create a Google Calendar
================================

Sign in at `Google Calendar <https://calendar.google.com/>`_.

> In the left sidebar, next to **Other calendars**, click **+** → **Create new calendar**. Name it ``Demo Calendar``, pick your timezone, click **Create calendar**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the left sidebar, next to :guilabel:`Other calendars`, :menuselection:`+ --> Create new calendar`.
Name it ``Demo Calendar``, pick your time zone, and click the :guilabel:`Create calendar` button.
```

> Add a few events. Mix weekly, daily, and one-off. Give them titles, descriptions, locations — they make the before-and-after easier to spot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a few events.
Mix weekly and daily recurring events, and one-time events.
Give them titles, descriptions, locations, and other useful data to make the before-and-after comparison easier to spot.
```

.. image:: /_static/tutorials/google-calendar-demo.png
   :alt: Google Calendar month view with original event titles, descriptions, and locations visible

>    :width: 100%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Step 2: Get the ICS URL

> =======================

Reviewer: ICS is never correct. It's not an acronym, but a file extension, `.ics`. It's better to use the terminology of Google Calendar, too.

```suggestion
Step 2: Get the calendar's URL
==============================
```

> Google Calendar gives every calendar an ICS feed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Calendar assigns every calendar a feed as a URL.
To get this URL, take the following steps.
```

1. Gear icon (top right) → **Settings**.
2. Left sidebar → **Settings for my calendars** → your **Demo Calendar**.
3. Scroll to **Integrate calendar**.

> 4. Copy the **Secret address in iCal format**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click on the gear icon in the top right, :menuselection:`Settings menu`.
2.  In the left sidebar, below :guilabel:`Settings for my calendars`, click the name of your calendar :menuselection:`Demo Calendar`.
3.  In the left sidebar, click :menuselection:`Integrate calendar` to scroll that section into view.
4.  Click the :guilabel:`Copy to clipboard` icon to the right of :guilabel:`Secret address in iCal format` to copy the URL to your computer's clipboard.
```

.. image:: /_static/tutorials/google-calendar-ics.png
   :alt: Google Calendar settings with the Secret address in iCal format highlighted
   :width: 100%

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The URL looks like this::

>     https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/{email}/private-{secret-token}/basic.ics

Reviewer: I love me some [`samp` role](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html#role-samp).

```suggestion
The URL looks like :samp:`https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/{email}/private-{secret-token}/basic.ics`, but with personal values for ``email`` and ``secret-token``,.
```

.. warning::

>     Treat this URL like a password. Anyone who has it can read your full calendar. Step 3 wraps it in an encrypted link so you can share publicly without leaking the original.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Treat this URL like a password.
    Anyone who has it can read your full calendar.
    The next step wraps it in an encrypted link, so you can share that publicly without leaking the original data.
```

Step 3: Choose what to share online
===================================

> Open `icalendar-anonymizer.com <https://icalendar-anonymizer.com/>`_ and click the **Fetch URL** tab. Paste the secret URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open `icalendar-anonymizer.com <https://icalendar-anonymizer.com/>`_ and click the :guilabel:`Fetch URL` tab.
Click in the input field with the placeholder text :guilabel:`https://example.com/calendar.ics`, and paste the secret URL.
```

> Expand **Advanced Options**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`Advanced Options` to reveal fields that you can manage.
```

.. image:: /_static/tutorials/anonymizer-fetch-options.png
   :alt: Per-field anonymization dropdowns under Advanced Options
   :width: 100%

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Each field has four modes:

- **Keep original** — pass through unchanged
- **Remove** — strip the field entirely
- **Randomize** — replace with a deterministic hash

> - **Replace with placeholder** — replace with fixed text like ``[Redacted]``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each field has four options, with its default option selected.

-   :guilabel:`Keep original` passes through the field value unchanged.
-   :guilabel:`Remove` removes the field.
-   :guilabel:`Randomize` replaces the field value with a deterministic hash.
-   :guilabel:`Replace with placeholder` replaces the field value with fixed text, such as ``[Redacted]``.
```

> The defaults keep titles (``SUMMARY: Keep original``) and remove everything else personal — descriptions, locations, attendees, organizers, categories, comments. ``UID`` is randomized so recurring events stay grouped but the original identifier doesn't leak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default selections keep titles, such as ``SUMMARY: Keep original``, and remove all other personal data, including descriptions, locations, attendees, organizers, categories, and comments.
:guilabel:`UID` is randomized by default so recurring events stay grouped, but the original identifier doesn't leak.
```

> Check **Generate shareable link** and pick **Live proxy (Fernet)**. The original URL and your field choices get encrypted into the link. Anyone using it gets your anonymized calendar; nobody can read the Google URL out of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the box labeled :guilabel:`Generate shareable link`, and select :guilabel:`Live proxy`.
The original URL and your field choices get encrypted into the link using Fernet encryption.
For convenience, this tutorial calls this encrypted link a "Fernet URL".
Anyone using it gets your anonymized calendar, and nobody can read the Google URL out of it.
```

> Click **Fetch & Anonymize**. Copy the link::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the button :guilabel:`Fetch & Anonymize`.
The Fernet URL appears.

Click the button :guilabel:`Copy` to copy the link to your computer's clipboard.
```

>     https://icalendar-anonymizer.com/fernet/{encrypted-token}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Fernet URL will look like :samp:`https://icalendar-anonymizer.com/fernet/{encrypted-token}`, but with your actual encrypted token.
```

> It's live — every visit refetches your calendar fresh. Edits in Google Calendar show up within minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Fernet URL is a live feed.
Every visit refetches your calendar anew.
Edits in Google Calendar show up within minutes.
```

Step 4: Embed with Open Web Calendar
====================================

> OWC turns an ICS URL into a month/week/day view. Pass your Fernet URL through its ``url`` parameter::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OWC turns an iCalendar URL into a month, week, or day view.
```

    https://open-web-calendar.hosted.quelltext.eu/calendar.html?url={fernet-url}

> URL-encode the Fernet URL first. It contains ``&`` and ``?``, which OWC would otherwise read as its own parameters. Most online URL encoders handle this in one click.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, URL-encode your Fernet URL.
It may contain ``&`` and ``?``, which OWC would otherwise read as its own parameters.
Most online URL encoders handle this in one click.

Then construct your OWC URL with :samp:`https://open-web-calendar.hosted.quelltext.eu/calendar.html?url={fernet-url}`, replacing ``fernet-url`` with your URL-encoded Fernet URL.
```

.. image:: /_static/tutorials/owc-rendered-demo.png
   :alt: Open Web Calendar showing the same month with only event titles, no descriptions or locations
   :width: 100%

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Same month, same titles. Everything else is gone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste the OWC URL into a web browser's address bar to visit the site.
You should see the same month and titles, but everything else removed.
```

> To embed on a web page, wrap the URL in an iframe::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To embed on a web page, wrap the OWC URL in an HTML iframe.
```

>     <iframe src="https://open-web-calendar.hosted.quelltext.eu/calendar.html?url={fernet-url}"
>             width="100%"
>             height="600"
>             frameborder="0">
>     </iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ..  code-block:: html
        <iframe src="https://open-web-calendar.hosted.quelltext.eu/calendar.html?url={fernet-url}"
            width="100%"
            height="600"
            frameborder="0">
        </iframe>
```

Troubleshooting
===============

**OWC shows an empty calendar.** Open your Fernet URL in the browser. If the response doesn't start with ``BEGIN:VCALENDAR``, the Google URL is wrong or Google's ICS feed is slow to pick up new events (can take 10–30 minutes).

**Fields you expected to hide are still visible.** The Fernet token captures your field choices at the moment you generated it. Changing the dropdowns later doesn't update an existing token — generate a new link.

> **Query parameters aren't being applied.** Make sure you URL-encoded the Fernet URL before passing it to OWC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't see the calendar you expect, then try the following troubleshooting tips.

OWC shows an empty calendar
---------------------------

Open your Fernet URL in the browser.
This will download an iCalendar file to your computer.

Open the file, and if it doesn't start with ``BEGIN:VCALENDAR``, then the Google URL is wrong or Google's iCalendar feed is slow to pick up new events.
Updates can take 10–30 minutes.

Fields you expected to hide are still visible
---------------------------------------------

The Fernet token captures your field choices at the moment you generated it.
Changing the selected options later doesn't update an existing token.

You should generate a new link.

Query parameters aren't being applied
-------------------------------------

Make sure you URL-encoded the Fernet URL before passing it to OWC.
```

Related topics
==============

> - :doc:`../usage/web-service` — Full reference for the ``/fetch`` and ``/fernet-generate`` endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   :doc:`../usage/web-service` is a reference for the ``/fetch`` and ``/fernet-generate`` endpoints.
```

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 icalendar-anonymizer contributors
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later

=====================================================
Publish an anonymized calendar with Open Web Calendar
=====================================================

This tutorial will guide you to share your calendar publicly, but hide the details you don't want people to see.

You'll use three tools:

-   :program:`Google Calendar` stores your calendar data.
-   :program:`icalendar-anonymizer` removes fields you don't want to share.
-   :program:`Open Web Calendar (OWC)` renders the result as a web page.

Step 1: Create a Google Calendar
================================

Sign in at `Google Calendar <https://calendar.google.com/>`_.

> In the left sidebar, next to :guilabel:`Other calendars`, :menuselection:`+ --> Create new calendar`.

Reviewer: Add omitted word.

```suggestion
In the left sidebar, next to :guilabel:`Other calendars`, select :menuselection:`+ --> Create new calendar`.
```

Reviewer: I also noticed that PyData Sphinx Theme has no distinctive style for menuselection. Issue created at https://github.com/pycalendar/icalendar-anonymizer/issues/142. We should still use the markup as is, but improve the style via that issue.
